[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to Beyond Belief.
We've got an amazing
program for you.
Aaron Abke, founder
of 4D University,
is a spiritual teacher
focused on enlightenment,
teaching the Law of One,
Christ consciousness,
and spiritual intelligence.
Aaron intends to help humanity
ascend to the fourth density
consciousness.
His mission is to awaken
our collective destiny
as an enlightened civilization.
His latest book is called
Three Beliefs of the Ego.
Aaron, welcome to Beyond Belief.
>>AARON ABKE: Thank you
for having me, George.
It's a pleasure to be with you.
>>NOORY: What an amazing
repertoire you have.
My God.
>>ABKE: I like to dabble in a
lot of subjects, you might say.
>>NOORY: How did this
all happen for you?
>>ABKE: Well, I
was born and raised
as a third generation
pastor's kid.
So being brought up in
a very spiritual family
was kind of my origin.
And ended up leaving
Christianity at around 23
and just kind of pursued Eastern
teachings and enlightenment
teachings.
And eventually came back
full circle to Christ again,
but through the Christ
consciousness lens.
So it's been a very
beautiful journey for sure.
>>NOORY: And you were a pastor
at the age of 22 years old?
>>ABKE: I was,
yeah, for one year.
>>NOORY: What was that like?
>>ABKE: I really enjoyed it.
I enjoyed being a pastor.
I was a worship leader.
I was the worship
pastor of the church.
And I was going to work my way--
my career plan was to follow
in my dad and grandfather's
footsteps and be a
senior pastor one day.
But you got to start somewhere
like in every industry.
So I started as a worship
pastor, and that was my passion.
And it was really
the church I worked
at that forced me to start
reconciling with some
of the dogmatic beliefs of
Christian fundamentalism
that I had the luxury of not
having to confront growing up
because my dad never preached
on hellfire, damnation type
sermons.
He's very much emphasized
the love of God,
the goodness of God.
So I had to confront
those beliefs of like,
do I believe in this
version of God or not?
And it was a clear no
for me at that age.
And so that's when I decided
to blow my life up and start
everything over again.
>>NOORY: Your dad
sounded very upbeat.
>>ABKE: He is.
I never thought I would
be able to say this
at this point in my life.
But when I came out
of Christianity at 23,
as you can imagine, it was
pretty tough for my dad,
thinking his son
has become a heretic
and is going wayward and stuff.
But--
>>NOORY: Going the
wrong direction.
>>ABKE: Right.
But over the years watching
my content on YouTube,
I have never tried to
force a conversation
with my dad about
any of this stuff
because I knew it would
probably be contentious.
And so I just let him kind of
approach it on his own speed.
And over the years, he
started listening to my videos
on Jesus and Christ
consciousness.
He's had his own kind
of disillusionment
from the church as well.
But I can say today
that my dad is
fully on board with everything
I teach and talk about,
in almost perfect
alignment with it, which
is a huge blessing for me
because I kind of always thought
my dad and I would have
parted ways on these issues.
>>NOORY: Aaron, how did
you make this transition
from being a pastor to a
personal trainer and a fitness
model?
>>ABKE: Well, when
I left Christianity,
it was kind of my
whole identity.
So I didn't even know who I was.
Like, who is Aaron Abke
without being a Christian?
That's my whole identity.
So I needed an outlet to have
my identity fixated upon.
And fitness was always kind of
another passion of mine growing
up secondary to my faith.
So I dove headlong into
full time bodybuilding,
professional fitness modeling,
CrossFit competition.
And I was a full time trainer
at Google for four years
and eight years in total.
And it was really
working at Google
as a personal trainer where
my sort of spiritual awakening
really happened.
>>NOORY: You were employed by
Google as a personal trainer
for their staff?
>>ABKE: Yeah.
I was a contractor so I didn't
work directly for Google,
but they do a lot
of contract work.
And I would work in--
there's about, I think, six gyms
on campus at the Googleplex.
So I worked at the main
gym, on the main campus.
And I would train their software
engineers and stuff like that.
>>NOORY: Somewhere
along the line,
you had a spiritual awakening.
What was that catalyst for you?
>>ABKE: Well, the
catalyst was really
just sort of going through
the dark night of the soul.
Divorced at 26, left my
religion and faith at 23.
Every single friend, every
single family member I had
was a hardcore Christian.
So I had no friends.
Most of my family had sort of
ostracized me as a heretic.
And I'd moved back home in with
my parents after my divorce.
I had no friends.
I'm living alone
in the Bay Area.
So it was very
depressing time for me.
And I was really seeking
what do I believe
about God and the divine.
And so that's when I was diving
into Eckhart Tolle, Alan Watts,
and teachers like that.
And so it was during my
lunch breaks at Google,
I would go up to this
balcony above my gym
and listen to Eckhart
Tolle for an hour
while I ate and just
watch the clouds.
And it was like the only time
of my day I could relax and be
at peace listening to Eckhart.
Most of the day,
my mind was just
going with all the
stories and stuff.
>>NOORY: Doo doo
doo doo doo doo.
>>ABKE: Yeah.
And just one particular day,
maybe two or three months
into doing this habit, I
was listening to a lecture
where Eckhart was mocking
things that our ego says to us.
Like, if only people could
recognize how important I am,
then I would truly be happy.
And he would laugh and
the audience would laugh.
And I was laughing
with him each time he
said one of these statements.
And I laughed myself into
a kind of samadhi state
where I realized what he's
saying is absolutely true.
It's like a tape
recorder in my brain.
It's like we all have this
same voice of the ego.
And it's not really who I am.
And so that realization
that I laughed myself
into having put me
in this Buddha state
for two weeks where
I got to enjoy
a sort of free sample
of enlightenment
and spent two weeks in the
most blissful, serene state
of consciousness.
And then it was two
weeks to the day
that I woke up in the morning
and noticed on my alarm
that it was two weeks since
this experience had happened.
And that was when the first
ego thought came back online.
And my ego basically
said, wow, it's
been two full weeks I've been
in this state of perfect bliss
and peace.
I wonder if I might
be enlightened.
And that was the
first thought I didn't
catch from the ego trying to
claim enlightenment for itself.
And from there, my ego came
back online very quickly.
And all my old
stories came back in.
And I could feel myself kind
of being cast from heaven,
so to speak.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ABKE: And I didn't
want to be, but I didn't
have a choice in the matter.
And so that was the big
catalyst that really brought me
to where I am today.
>>NOORY: When you say the ego,
what does that mean to you?
>>ABKE: It means something
very different to me
now than it would have 10
years ago when it happened.
The way that I
teach ego today is
that we often hear this
phrase, the ego doesn't exist.
It's not real.
And it almost feels like a kind
of gaslighting because what do
you mean the ego doesn't exist?
I hear it talking to me all day.
I suffer from it.
How can it not exist?
And so I thought about
that question a lot.
What does it mean to say
the ego doesn't exist
and yet it torments me?
Well, what it means is that
the ego is not an isolated
entity of any kind, but it's
actually a mental activity
that we mistake for an entity.
So the definition that I
give in many of my courses
is the ego is the mental
activity of identifying
or claiming I am
this, I am that.
And the mind is
always doing this
because it's been programmed
through evolution to do this.
And we just take it
for granted that it's
me thinking all these thoughts.
But you can actually start
to become aware of the voice
in the head that
says, I'm this person.
This happened to me.
That happened to me.
Story, story,
claiming everything.
And you can start to
detach from it a bit
and observe it as a
neutral participant.
And you notice that
when you do that,
that voice starts to
quiet pretty quickly.
So it's not a real entity that's
talking to you in your mind.
It's a kind of
reflexive mechanism
that it will claim anything
that's put in front of it--
a name, a person, a story,
an identity, a role.
And that's just the job that
nature has given to ego.
>>NOORY: It's not an
alter ego within you?
>>ABKE: You could
definitely call it that.
Yeah.
I mean, it will become
that if you let it.
>>NOORY: The title of your
book, Three Beliefs of Ego,
tell me about that title.
>>ABKE: So the
three beliefs of ego
was the biggest
blessing that came out
of that whole experience
I just explained
of having that two-week
Satori experience
and then being thrown out
of it and thrown right
back into my depressive state.
And really, it was much worse
after having tasted heaven
to be thrown back into hell.
Hell is bad enough by itself.
>>NOORY: You would think so?
>>ABKE: Yeah.
But when you've tasted heaven
and then go back to hell,
it's much worse because now
you know what's available
and what's the alternative.
So that's what
happened to me was
once I had tasted that
that state of consciousness
is absolutely real and
available, nothing in the world
could satisfy me anymore.
I walked out of my
personal training
life or my bodybuilding career,
my fitness modeling career.
None of it meant
anything anymore.
And all I wanted to do was to
figure out how do I get back
to that state of consciousness.
Nothing else matters.
And in that inquiry, I guess
you could just say the universe,
divine intelligence
kind of led me
through this process
of understanding
because my main question
was, why do I suffer?
What is my-- at the core, what
is my suffering based upon?
And so I started
noticing that really it's
just three emotions
that I ever suffer from
or that any human being
suffers from which you could
call sadness, anger, and fear.
And there's many flavors
of those emotions--
>>NOORY: There's no
happiness in there?
>>ABKE: Well, negative emotions.
Sorry.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>ABKE: There's only
three negative emotions
that we suffer from or
that we call suffering.
Different forms of
sadness or anger or fear.
And so that became very
clear to me that yeah,
these are the only
three negative emotions
human beings really suffer from.
And if that's
true, they must all
appear for a specific
reason, because why do you
feel sad rather than
angry or vice versa.
There's a certain reason why
you respond with that emotion.
And I wanted to figure
out what is that reason.
And that was the inquiry that
led to this understanding
that each emotion is actually
signaling a different belief
in the ego mind.
And your emotions are
actually your guidance system,
your negative
emotions, especially,
that are trying to clue
you in on what belief
is operating in your mind right
now that's causing this emotion.
And so just to simplify
it really quickly,
sadness, the emotion of
sadness is the signal
for the belief in lack.
I am lacking.
Something is not
here that I need.
>>NOORY: Something is missing.
>>ABKE: Something is missing.
You only feel sadness--
anyone listening can
investigate this.
You only feel sad
because you believe
you don't have something
you need or want,
or that you lost something
you need or want.
So that's very clear.
The next emotion is anger.
And these three beliefs
all connect to each other,
by the way.
So once I believe I'm
lacking, that kind of
implies the second
belief, which is maybe
I can fulfill my lack
out in the world.
And that's the second belief
of ego, which is attachment.
And so attachment is
what causes anger,
because anytime your
attachments get blocked,
what's the response?
Anger, upset, right?
So anger is the
emotion that says,
hey, you're attached
to something here
that you need to look at.
And then if I'm lacking and
the world can fulfill me,
and I've got to go get my
happiness out in the world--
sex, drugs, rock and
roll, whatever it is--
then that implies
the third belief,
which is more subtle
than the first two,
but the most pervasive.
And it's the belief that
I'm the doer of actions
or I'm in control of life.
I'm the one, not the universe,
not God, no higher power.
>>NOORY: Me.
>>ABKE: The separate self.
Me, the ego.
I go out and get what I want.
I control life.
I bend life to my will.
I make things happen.
That's the third belief.
And that's the
belief that produces
fear, the third emotion.
Because what happens
anytime you feel
like you don't have
control over something?
Stress, anxiety, panic,
worry, fear will set in.
So that's the three beliefs.
>>NOORY: What is the Law of One?
What does that mean to you?
>>ABKE: Well, the Law of One
separating it from the text,
the Law of One, what is
the actual Law of One to me
is the awareness that there's
only one being in the universe.
And the Law of One to me really
spells out what causes karma,
because negative
karma has to then
be any infringement
against the Law of One.
And so if the Law
of One says there's
only one being in the universe.
You are that being,
I am that being,
and everything in
creation is it.
Then if I do harm to
anyone, like willful harm,
then I'm definitely in
violation of that Law of One.
And so if I violate the
Law of One by doing harm,
I create negative karma that
cycles back around to me.
>>NOORY: And it bites you.
>>ABKE: It bites you
because the universe
is built on perfect balance.
Everything exists
in perfect balance.
So if I try to unbalance the
universe by judging, hating,
attacking, causing
harm to it in any way,
the law must violate
me in equal measure,
must balance me in equal
measure because you can't
make the universe unbalanced.
And we call that karma
in the Hindu tradition.
But to me, it's
just the Law of One.
There's only one real
law in the universe.
And Jesus said this too, right?
Lord, what is the greatest
commandment of all?
Love God with all your heart and
love your neighbor as yourself.
Kind of the summary
of the Law of One.
>>NOORY: Sure.
Your pastor is
coming out of you.
>>ABKE: It happens.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: The Law of One
you turned into something
on YouTube.
Tell me about that.
>>ABKE: Yeah.
So I found the text
shortly after that
experience I described.
And I was just blown away by
this remarkable text and all
the teachings it has to offer.
I'd never come across
material like this.
And I was really surprised
that there was almost nothing
about it online, on YouTube.
I was trying to
research more of it.
There was almost no
videos that I could find.
And I had just started
my YouTube channel
six months before that.
So I thought, well, why not me?
I'll make some videos.
I assumed that it would be
stuff that was way too out there
for most people.
But boy, was I wrong.
Because my first video on the
seven densities of consciousness
went like mega viral.
And people were like,
this is incredible.
Give us more.
And so I ended up doing a
whole series over the next--
>>NOORY: You've got like 26
million views or something
like that.
>>ABKE: Yeah, yeah.
I think 26 episodes too in the
Law of One series, something
like that.
So it's been a long
running series.
But there's just so much to
unpack with the Law of One.
>>NOORY: Kundalini
comes up a lot.
What does that mean?
>>ABKE: Well, so kundalini--
the Law of One has really
helped me to understand
what kundalini is.
Because about two
years, three years
after that initial
awakening, I started
going through classic
kundalini awakening symptoms.
And I didn't know
anything really
about kundalini at that time.
I knew that it's a phenomenon
that people experience,
but I didn't know what
was happening in my body.
So I thought maybe this is
like kundalini symptoms.
I've heard about that.
Let me research that.
And I'm reading the
sutras and yogic texts.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ABKE: And they're helping
me understand it a bit.
But really, it was
the Law of One.
And understanding those
really the chakras,
the energy centers,
and the seven
densities that really
helped it click
for me, which is that
every human being is born
with the first three
chakras in activation--
the red, orange, and yellow ray.
But human beings have
to earn the green ray.
This is our evolutionary
leap in this lifetime
is to try to go from solar
plexus to heart chakra
or from third to fourth
density consciousness.
>>NOORY: And that's not easy.
>>ABKE: It's not.
It's not as easy
as you would think.
Really because it
requires you to balance
your ego, which is not easy.
But when you are on a spiritual
path, especially when you
have a passionate, devotional
relationship to the divine,
when you love God as Jesus
said with all your heart,
that is really the catalyst that
sparks kundalini to turn on,
because kundalini is our
green ray energy turning on
in the nervous system.
>>NOORY: How many
people know that, Aaron?
>>ABKE: Not many.
>>NOORY: They will after
watching you on this show.
>>ABKE: Maybe.
I have a course where
I teach this as well.
It connected the dots
for me because the Hindus
have taught for a long
time that kundalini
is the divine feminine
energy, the energy of love.
And that love is what
awakens kundalini.
So they're bang on.
But the Law of One shows
that the fourth chakra
is the heart chakra.
It represents love and
oneness with all things.
So when you start to integrate
oneness into your awareness,
that's what will really turn
on kundalini because you're
basically sending a
signal to your body,
to your nervous system.
I need to upgrade my nervous
system to the next frequency
level, which is the
fourth density level,
so this purging
has to take place.
And that's why classically,
in kundalini awakenings,
any kundalini guru
will warn you about,
hey, don't go into
this thing recklessly.
Because when you
turn kundalini on,
she comes with that fire to
purify your whole nervous,
your mind, everything.
>>NOORY: It's ready.
You had a vision with kundalini.
What happened?
>>ABKE: So this was
in 2020, I believe.
I'd been having this--
the most notable
phenomenon for me,
and it's different
for everybody,
was I call them volcano
veins because I didn't
know how else to describe it.
But I think it's the meridians.
It was especially down
my forearms and shins,
but also up my back
a bit and neck,
where I would feel this
tremendously hot, almost
like electrical sensation.
>>NOORY: Tingly?
>>ABKE: Not tingly but hot.
Burning hot but not painful.
And it would get so intense.
If I would sit down like this
for a certain period of time,
it would start to build up.
And I would have to get up
and walk around my house
to get the energy to calm down.
>>NOORY: Did you think
something was wrong with you?
>>ABKE: No.
I didn't think something
was wrong with me.
I knew it was some kind
of spiritual phenomenon.
I could sort of sense
that I hadn't connected
it to kundalini just yet.
But this is what sparked me to
start researching kundalini.
And it got to the point
where every single night
when I would lay down to sleep,
I would wake up about an hour
into my sleep with my arms just
scorching hot with these volcano
veins down my fingers and hands.
And I'd have to get up
and walk through my house
to calm the energy down.
And so it was probably like
six months of that until the--
I call it an inner conjunction.
But it's the classic kundalini
activation everybody knows of.
And really, everybody thinks
of kundalini awakening, when
you hear that term,
people think it's
the event that happens where
the lightning bolt shoots up
your spine out of
your crown, right?
And you're kind of like in
this electrocuted state of God
consciousness,
>>NOORY: That's not it, is it?
>>ABKE: But that's not
what it actually is.
That's a symptom of it.
But by the time that inner
conjunction event happens
to somebody, they've
already been in the process
for quite a long time.
They maybe didn't know
it, but you don't just
have that happen out of nowhere.
It's a buildup of energy.
So that happened to
me one night where I
was-- we had just eaten dinner.
I was watching
Gaia with my wife.
And I started getting restless
leg syndrome really, really bad.
Have you had restless
leg syndrome?
>>NOORY: No.
>>ABKE: OK.
It's not fun.
Anybody watching
who's had it knows.
You're squirming.
You're flexing your legs.
It's like this energy you
can't get out of your legs.
And my wife's like,
what's going on?
>>NOORY: Are you, like, spastic?
>>ABKE: Almost.
Yeah.
You're flexing.
You're stretching.
You're trying to get the
sensation to go away,
and it won't go away.
And I'm like, I don't know.
But I've only had this
one other time in my life,
and this is way worse than
the last time I had it.
So I went to bed.
And I'm laying there writhing
in bed with this restless legs
syndrome and not having
a clue what's going on.
And it was about an hour
of writhing like that I
finally, kind of from
exhaustion, fell asleep.
And as soon as I fell
asleep, I describe it
as if you attached a fire hose
to the bottom of my spine.
This incredible sensation
of energy just kind of--
>>NOORY: Bursting.
>>ABKE: --burst up my spine
out off the top of my head.
And I was all of a sudden in
this kind of energy portal.
I'd only seen the goddess
Shakti like a picture of her,
like the Hindu traditional
paintings of her maybe
once or twice.
I couldn't have told you
exactly what she looks like.
I would have been
able to say, I think
she's got four arms or six
arms, jewelry, fiery eyes,
that kind of basic thing.
But I saw the goddess
in this energy portal.
And it was incredibly
vivid and real.
And I was really amazed when I
saw it because I'm like, wow,
the Hindus got her right.
That's exactly
how she looks, six
arms, bright kind of indigo
blue color, piercing eyes.
>>NOORY: Six arms?
>>ABKE: Six arms.
>>NOORY: How many legs?
>>ABKE: Two from
what I can tell.
>>NOORY: Normal human.
>>ABKE: Normal human but
with some extra arms.
And she just kind of proceeded
to have this conversation
with me where she told
me things about myself
and what I was processing
through, what she
was working through with me.
And it was just an incredibly
beautiful experience.
And then after-- it was
probably like five minutes
that it calmed down.
And I just kind of laid there
the rest of the night in shock.
So that was my experience
of the inner conjunction.
The kundalini awakening
did not end there.
The purification
process definitely
continued on for quite a while.
>>NOORY: Aaron, tell me about
the fourth density ascension
protocol?
What does that mean?
>>ABKE: So that is the protocol
that I put myself through
to try to navigate through this
kundalini awakening process.
Once we understand that
a kundalini awakening is
the ascension of your
own consciousness
to the fourth density level
of the heart, then we realize,
OK, we're going through a fourth
density ascension process.
The four DAP I call it.
The protocol is it's a
three-month program in 4D
University.
But I basically take people
through a 12-week course where
each week they have--
its three lessons a week.
>>NOORY: You
created this course.
>>ABKE: Mhm.
And one or two of the three
is a certain yoga practice,
that classic kundalini
yoga, kriya yoga type stuff,
or Hatha yoga.
These are ancient technologies
that the Indians and Tibetans
figured out to help
facilitate this energy to move
through your nervous system.
So it's a whole practice
technique of breathwork, asanas,
bandhas, and different things
that move kundalini energy
through your body.
And then we have a couple of
non-sitting practices as well
that help facilitate it.
So it's just the
resource I wanted
to make to help other people who
were going through this process
like I was to have a safe
way to self-navigate it.
Because people will
go to, for example,
a kundalini awakening retreat
and they'll get shaktipat.
Or sometimes through
intense breathwork
you'll have an inner
conjunction happen.
These are like big fun
retreats for people to go to
because everyone's kundalinis
are popping and it's exciting.
Very few of these retreats
from what I've found actually
kind of equip people with
the knowledge of hey,
here's what's actually
happening to you
and why this event took place.
And here's what you can expect
to happen going forward.
That information is much harder
to come by than just the novelty
of the event itself.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ABKE: So I wanted to help
people learn what is kundalini.
Why does this happen?
How do we help it happen?
How do we calm it down
if it's too intense?
How do we ramp it up if
we want to ramp it up?
And so it's just a
resource for humanity,
for people going through
kundalini awakenings
to help them self-navigate
through the process.
>>NOORY: You help them through
what you call the 4D University?
>>ABKE: Yes.
>>NOORY: That you created
along with your wife, Selena.
>>ABKE: Yes.
>>NOORY: Tell me
her involvement.
>>ABKE: So she was
working for Snapchat
as a marketing consultant.
I'd had some other
programs for a while,
but I'd had this big vision for
years to start 4D University
and put all these things
we're describing into programs
for people.
>>NOORY: Excellent.
>>ABKE: So I said, I'm
just going to do it.
Let's just start somewhere.
Created it.
And I told her, hey, if you help
me launch this and if we get--
I think we figured
out the numbers
with our budget and
our living expenses.
If we get 200 members, you can
quit your job and work with me
full time in 4D U.
So she put together this
incredible marketing email
campaign to help get
it out to my audience.
We had a very successful launch.
We had like 210 signups.
So we were like, wow, you get to
quit your job and work with me.
And so she kind of
became the COO of 4D U.
She just has a remarkable gift
for operations, team management,
directing tasks and stuff.
All the stuff I'm not good
at, she's very good at.
So we're--
>>NOORY: Mutual partners
in more ways than one.
>>ABKE: Yes.
Yeah.
We're very yin and
yang in that way.
>>NOORY: You've left
us some testimonials
that we have on video, and
they're absolutely astounding.
>>SPEAKER 1: His messages are
precise and clear for whatever
you're looking for.
He shares all these examples
that we all go through,
all the struggles of
life that we go through.
>>SPEAKER 2: He
holistically makes
all of this material
so digestible
and accessible to anyone.
And I've never heard
someone articulate
all of these complex
abstract topics
about living life
to your fullest,
living through your heart,
being who you truly are.
Aaron exceeded all expectations.
Like speaking with
him, seeing him
teach, seeing how true
to the material he is,
and how he's able to connect
with all of the audience.
>>SPEAKER 3: He truly
is what he preaches.
He preaches love.
I feel his love.
I feel his presence.
He pay attention when
I was asking questions,
I told him about this pain
that I had on my shoulder.
He says, are you
ready to release it?
And he prayed for me.
So he's like-- my favorite part
is meeting the beautiful soul
that he is, that he
preaches what he says.
>>NOORY: You started with
more than 200 attendees.
What are you at now?
>>ABKE: I think we're
about 15,000 free members
in our community.
>>NOORY: 15,000?
>>ABKE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: My gosh.
>>ABKE: And about 800
actual paying students
that are taking the
curriculum and whatnot.
>>NOORY: How often
is the curriculum?
>>ABKE: So it's evergreen.
So whenever people join,
they can start that day,
and it's dripped out over
a seven-month period.
There's three programs
that they go through.
And so it's kind of like a
take it at your own pace style.
>>NOORY: What is the SQ test?
>>ABKE: So this
is the project I'm
really excited about
that I've been working on
for at least three years.
I've been interested
in this topic of SQ
or spiritual intelligence.
Really, it actually
began, George, at Google,
working with the software
engineers as a personal trainer.
I got to see the dichotomy of
different types of intelligence
because I'm working with
these software engineers who
are brilliant, almost
genius level IQ.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>ABKE: But they have
almost no social skills.
They can barely
maintain eye contact.
They're not very
emotionally aware.
>>NOORY: No relationships.
Nothing.
>>ABKE: And so I spent a
lot of my training sessions
really trying to help bring
my clients out of their shell
and feel comfortable in
their skin and stuff.
And it showed me that there's
different types of intelligence.
And clearly, being spiritually
intelligent is a thing.
But how do we quantify it?
How do we define it?
And so I've attempted to do
that for the last three years.
And I've slowly been
working towards a model
that I feel is not the most
accurate possible model, not
the best model that
will ever be made.
I'm sure other people will make
better models in the future.
But I'm trying to
start somewhere.
And it's through quantifying the
map of spiritual intelligence
that exists in you and I, which
is our seven energy centers,
I sort of began to realize
spiritual intelligence is
our own seven energy centers.
Because the way I define it--
I have a couple of
definitions for it.
But the simplest one is that
spiritual intelligence is
your comprehension of reality.
And so every energy center
represents a different locus
of comprehension, meaning as
we rise our energy to higher
and higher centers, it's
almost like a filter that
opens more and more to reality.
And we're able to take in more
of reality, such as moving
from ego to heart.
>>NOORY: Did you learn
this by trial and error?
>>ABKE: Oh yes.
Oh yes.
>>NOORY: I would think so.
>>ABKE: Yeah.
You learn the most through your
own journey and experience,
right?
Knowledge can only
take you so far.
Knowledge is very good.
We need pointers for sure.
But you've got to
live this stuff out
to really learn about it.
And I learned through
my own journey of SQ
that there's elements of
reality that I know about but I
can't comprehend them.
>>NOORY: And what
is SQ stand for?
>>ABKE: So spiritual
quotient similar to IQ.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>ABKE: But I just call
it spiritual intelligence.
>>NOORY: You coined that?
>>ABKE: I don't
think I've coined it.
I've heard some other
people use the term SQ.
I think the Gene Keys
uses the term SQ.
But yeah, it's not a very
highly used term, I don't think.
>>NOORY: You have an
accelerator program.
How does that work?
>>ABKE: Yeah.
So the program I'm working
on is to teach people
the seven levels of SQ and
what they represent, and then
how we're blocked at
each level and how
we progress at each level.
So basically, what I've done is
I've boiled down every chakra
to its five main qualities.
And in the lower three
chakras, and this
is kind of Law of One stuff,
but the lower three chakras
according to the Law of One--
>>NOORY: So it's related
to the Law of One.
>>ABKE: Oh yes.
Oh yes.
I've weaved-- the Law of One
has just infiltrated everything
I think about and
teach, for sure.
But I've used a lot of what
I've learned from the Law of One
to come up with this model.
And what the Law of One says,
and this is really interesting,
is that blockages actually only
occur in the lower three energy
centers.
And this is kind of a misnomer
that some people will say things
like, oh, my third
eye is blocked
or my heart chakra is blocked.
And it's kind of true, but
it's not the full truth.
The full truth is that all
blockages take place in those
lower three energy centers, the
primal rays, as we call them.
And if those
centers are blocked,
they don't allow
certain energies
to get up to the higher chakras.
So because the energy
of love isn't making it
past the lower three, you
think your heart is blocked.
But as soon as you
unblock these lower three,
your heart is going to shine
with that green ray energy.
No problem.
The heart can't be blocked.
The heart just closes
off to whatever's
not love because that's the
frequency of the heart is love.
>>NOORY: How did you
come across this?
>>ABKE: Through the Law of
One, through just contemplation
and meditation in
my own practice.
Life reveals things to you.
When you're interested in them
and when you have a passion
to know, the universe
definitely wants
to unveil its secrets to us.
>>NOORY: At what point
did you realize, Aaron,
I have created something
here and it's working?
>>ABKE: That's a good question.
I really don't have the feeling
that I've created anything,
as weird as that may sound.
>>NOORY: Look at
what you've done.
>>ABKE: Yes.
On a relative level, for sure.
>>NOORY: Take a bow.
>>ABKE: Yeah, yeah.
But when you're just
so cognizant that it's
all God bringing
revelation through,
bringing information through,
I'm just a recipient of it.
Like, I couldn't have
done this with my own ego.
It's really a gift
that I've been given,
and so I'm just grateful for it.
I've seen through my
courses and students
that this understanding of
sort of the map of progressing
through the chakras is one of
the most helpful frameworks
for anybody interested
in spiritual development.
Because when you know
the map of the territory
that you're trying
to travel through,
it's a lot easier
not to get lost.
But most people are
in the predicament--
most spiritual seekers are
kind of in this predicament
where they don't
really understand
exactly the progression of
spirituality and how it unfolds.
And so they're just kind of left
shooting in the dark for what
practice should I do?
What should I focus on?
I don't really know.
And that's what I've
wanted to solve,
George, is how do I help
someone understand here's
where you're at.
Literally, this is
the energy center
that your consciousness
is located in right now.
Once I know that, I
know where I'm blocked
and what I need to do
to balance my blockages
and rise to the
next energy center.
I mean, the universe has
given us this map of SQ
in a very clear way
in our own bodies.
Like you are that
map, but you've
got to explore yourself
a bit to learn the map.
>>NOORY: How do you apply
these four densities
to your teachings?
>>ABKE: So the four densities,
there are seven in total,
seven chakras, seven densities.
I really teach mostly one
through three because--
or sorry, one through four
because what the Law of One
lays out very clearly is that
planet Earth is a third density
planet.
Humanity is a third
density race of beings
attempting to move to the
fourth density right now.
And apparently, as of
2012, Earth technically
shifted or was magnetized to the
next density of consciousness.
>>NOORY: What did that?
>>ABKE: Just the
precession of the equinox.
Law of One describes
that the universe works
like the ticking of a clock.
The planets rotate and
it's all timed out.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>ABKE: So for the third
density, in specific,
they say that there's three
cycles of 25-ish thousand years,
which we know as the
precession of the equinox.
And every precession that comes
around after that 25,000-year
cycle, the Earth becomes
eligible to upgrade its
frequency, but only if
the planetary vibration,
that is the people
living on the planet,
have raised their consciousness
to that level to a sufficient
degree.
And the degree they
name is actually
51% or greater love oriented.
So can you live from your
heart at least 51% of the time?
It's kind of the threshold
for entering fourth density.
So humanity has gone through--
Earth has gone through
three whole cycles of this.
So 75,000 years we've
been in third density.
And as of 2012, the
third cycle has ended
and the clock has moved
to the fourth density now.
And so the planet
is taking humanity
through an involuntary shadow
work at this point saying,
hey, I'm going to
the fourth density.
And so I'm only going to allow
the human beings on my planet
who are going there with me.
And so if you're
an unevolved soul,
you're going to have a
really hard time here
because the third density
karma and shadows are coming up
and you're going to get
probably get lost in those.
And the key is, according to
the Law of One, if you don't
graduate to fourth
density in this lifetime,
your soul will have to choose
a different third density
planet in your next lifetime to
finish out your third density
learning.
And then once you
do, you can come back
to the fourth density Earth.
But the soul has to
go to a planet that
matches its density
level, which makes
all the sense in the world.
>>NOORY: Do you have to
start all over again?
>>ABKE: No, you
don't start all over.
You pick up where you left off.
But Earth has
graduated apparently
to the fourth density.
And so if you want to
reincarnate onto this planet
again as a fourth
density being, you've
got to get to that 51%
or greater heart chakra
activation in this
lifetime or you won't be
eligible in the next lifetime.
>>NOORY: Aaron, you give
off a lot of energy.
You can feel it
emanating from you.
Do people say that to you?
>>ABKE: Every so often,
but not very commonly.
>>NOORY: You do.
What is Christ consciousness?
>>ABKE: Christ consciousness is
fourth density consciousness.
It's the consciousness--
>>NOORY: They're
one and the same?
>>ABKE: To me, yes.
They are one and the same.
It's the awareness of oneness as
a course in miracles would say.
To me, I think we see
the best reflection
of Christ's consciousness in the
mouth of Jesus in the Gospels.
When over and over
again, when Jesus
was asked, how do I
enter eternal life or how
can I be saved?
This may shock people,
but Jesus never
once ever uttered
the words confess me
as your Lord and Savior or
believe I was resurrected
or any of the stuff
you're going to hear
in church of how you get saved.
Every single time,
without one exception,
that Jesus was asked,
how do I get saved?
He said, love God
with all your heart
and love your
neighbor as yourself.
And he went beyond
that many, many times.
And said, and furthermore, if
you don't love your neighbor
as yourself, you
cannot be saved.
Jesus said, if you don't forgive
your brother his trespasses,
your father cannot forgive
you your trespasses.
It doesn't matter how much
you confess me as Lord.
Only the one who does
the will of my Father
will enter the
kingdom of heaven.
>>NOORY: Basically,
the Ten Commandments.
>>ABKE: He would say,
follow the Ten Commandments,
the first of which is love God,
love your neighbor as yourself.
And Jesus said, if
you do this one thing,
if you follow this one law, you
have fulfilled the entire law.
And that's because
it's the Law of One.
Everyone is God in disguise.
So love everyone
as if they're God
and you've fulfilled
the entire law.
So to me, that's
Christ Consciousness.
>>NOORY: What happens
to a non-believer?
>>ABKE: Well, if we want to
use that term, a non-believer--
>>NOORY: A skeptic.
>>ABKE: Yeah.
Everybody goes through the
same progression of their soul.
You're going to
keep reincarnating
in the same realm, whatever
realm that is, until you learn
the lessons of that realm.
The universe, I like to say, is
a university for consciousness.
And your own life is the
teacher or your higher self
is your teacher delivering you
the lessons you need of hey,
you can be a little
more patient.
You could be a little more kind.
You could be a little
more forgiving.
Your life is always
delivering you those lessons.
But if the soul doesn't have
enough SQ yet to comprehend,
as we've said, the lessons
that life is serving them,
then they miss the
lessons and they
keep making the same mistakes
and beating their head
against the same walls.
And so they have to
keep reincarnating
until they learn those lessons.
And the Law of One says every
human being in third density
is here to learn
the lessons of love.
Love is the only salvation
from third density.
And so Jesus, I
think, summarized it
very well when he said,
all you've got to do
is love God with all your heart.
And the way that you
actually show that you
love God with all your heart--
because let's be honest,
anybody can say they love God.
And most people say that.
>>NOORY: And just spout it off.
>>ABKE: Yeah.
It's just lip service.
But they don't actually love
their neighbor as themselves.
They're judgmental,
hypocritical.
So the only way you can actually
prove in reality itself, which
is all that matters, that you
do love God with all your heart,
is that you love your
neighbor as yourself.
>>NOORY: What is
spiritual balancing?
>>ABKE: Spiritual
balancing is a concept
taught in the Law of One.
It's one of the main staple
teachings in 4D University,
in our curriculum, that
describes how we unblock those
lower three energy centers.
And it's very interesting.
And I think you'll
like this, George,
because you've studied
a course in miracles,
at least a little bit.
Yes?
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>ABKE: OK.
So spiritual balancing
is forgiveness
from a course in miracles.
Same exact thing.
But the Law of One
teaches forgiveness
in a very unique way,
which is that all of us
are carrying imbalanced
perspectives.
We see this right
now in our world
in a big way with the
political divide, right?
Everyone is so triggered
about the other side
of the political aisle.
>>NOORY: And angry.
>>ABKE: Angry,
hostile, all of it.
And that's because they're
very, very imbalanced
in a certain perspective.
So the Law of One
says, if you want
to unblock these imbalances
to open the flow of energy
to rise higher and make
its way in the heart,
you've got to
spiritually balance them.
And the way that they
teach that is they
say you actually
have to mentally go
into the perspective you
hate and despise and consider
it and contemplate it until you
lose the ability to be triggered
by it.
It's a very simple
practice in theory,
but it's not an easy
practice in application
because it requires
you to face up
to all of the perspectives
you hate and judge so much.
The example I give is
veganism versus carnivorism.
Meat eaters, non-meat eaters.
Let's say you're a vegan
who's really triggered
by people that eat animals.
And you think, man,
they're so heartless.
They don't love animals at all.
>>NOORY: Evil people.
>>ABKE: Yeah.
My question for you
is, does the carnivore
see themselves like that?
>>NOORY: Of course not.
>>ABKE: Of course not.
They would say,
well, I don't hate.
I love animals.
I have two dogs.
I have a cat.
I love animal.
I don't hate animals.
So you have an
imbalanced perspective.
You need to jump into the
perspective or the shoes
of the carnivore and
ask yourself questions
like why would someone
or how would someone
arrive at the belief that
it's OK to eat animals
and it's not wrong?
And you consider all the
arguments carnivores make,
which is, hey, the cycle
of life, death and rebirth.
It just happens.
It's all good.
And you just kind of contemplate
how a carnivore thinks.
And you may find it
uncomfortable at first.
You will.
But the key is you don't have
to agree with the perspective.
In fact, you actually
shouldn't agree with it.
You shouldn't agree
with any perspectives.
You should hold all
perspectives as equally
valid from their own
position because everybody
thinks that they're right
from the perspective they're
looking from.
So it does you no good
to be like, you're wrong.
But they don't think
they're wrong, buddy.
So you might as well try to
understand them rather than
judge them.
So the only thing
it asks is that you
come to an understanding
of that perspective.
Not that you agree with it,
but that you lose the ability
to judge it any longer.
>>NOORY: Aaron, are miracles
created or do they just happen?
>>ABKE: Of course,
miracles would
say miracles take
place naturally
as expressions of love.
And they say the real miracle
is the love that inspires them.
So I would say miracles
are a natural byproduct.
I don't think a
miracle is something
you can do with
effort in that sense
because the one that
wants to do it with effort
would be the ego who thinks
it's in control of I'll
have a miracle.
I'll shift my perception.
But the course says
you really can't
do that because
the same ego that
holds the biased perspective
can't also shift it.
So instead, you gain that
devotional, open-hearted
attitude towards the divine.
And you just say, God,
I know I have judgments.
I know that I resent
people in my heart
and I hold unforgiveness.
And I know that of my
own personal strength.
I can't get rid of these things.
So, God, I invite you to
help me heal these things.
And you invite in the Holy
Spirit, as the course would say.
And then the miracles
start to happen
where maybe you encounter
that carnivore that
would trigger you.
And this time, you don't
feel so much animosity,
but you actually feel a warm
compassion towards them.
Even though you don't agree
with their carnivorism,
you still love the person.
And that's the real miracle
is the internal shift that
takes place that
you can only verify
through your direct
experience of
do I actually feel
these things anymore
towards these people
or situations?
Life alone is the barometer
for our progression.
>>NOORY: Aaron, how do
people track your work?
>>ABKE: I'm easy to find.
You can find me at Aaron
Abke anywhere dot com,
Instagram @aaronabke,
youtube.com/AaronAbke,
or you can go to
4duniversity.com as well.
>>NOORY: Good for you.
>>ABKE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Thanks for
being on Beyond Belief.
>>ABKE: Thank you for
having me, George.
It's been a pleasure.
>>NOORY: We started the
program talking about karma.
And I truly believe,
as Aaron has said,
what goes around comes around.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief.
[THEME MUSIC]